# Configuring Deployments

There are a few minor differences between deployments with Sphinx and deployments with vanilla Forge scripts. This guide will cover these differences.

## Table of Contents

- [Sample Sphinx Script](#sample-sphinx-script)
- [Required Configuration Options](#required-configuration-options)
  - [Project Name](#project-name)
  - [Owners](#owners)
  - [Threshold](#threshold)
  - [DevOps Platform Options](#devops-platform-options)
- [The `run()` function](#the-run-function)
- [Deploying Contracts](#deploying-contracts)
  - [Contract Deployment Options](#contract-deployment-options)
    - [Reference Name](#reference-name)
    - [Salt](#salt)

## Sample Sphinx Script

A Sphinx deployment script has the following format:

```
import { Script } from "forge-std/Script.sol";
import { SphinxClient } from "../client/SphinxClient.sol";
import { Network } from "../contracts/foundry/SphinxPluginTypes.sol";

contract Sample is Script, SphinxClient {
    function setUp() public {
        // Required configuration options:
        sphinxConfig.projectName = "My Project";
        sphinxConfig.owners = [0xf39Fd6e51aad88F6F4ce6aB8827279cffFb92266];
        sphinxConfig.threshold = 1;

        // Sphinx DevOps platform options:
        sphinxConfig.proposers = [0xf39Fd6e51aad88F6F4ce6aB8827279cffFb92266];
        sphinxConfig.mainnets = [Network.ethereum, Network.arbitrum];
        sphinxConfig.testnets = [Network.goerli, Network.arbitrum_goerli];
        sphinxConfig.orgId = "<org id>";
    }

    // Your deployment goes here:
    function run() public sphinx override {
        MyContract myContract = deployMyContract("Hello!", 2);
        myContract.add(1);
    }
}
```

There are three main differences between this script and a vanilla Forge script:

1. There are a few configuration options that you must specify in your `setUp()` function. These options exist on the `sphinxConfig` struct.
2. The `run()` function, which is the entry point for the deployment, must include a `sphinx` modifier.
3. Instead of using standard contract deployment syntax (i.e. `new MyContract(...)`), you'll need to call deployment functions like `deployMyContract(...)`. These deployment functions are automatically generated when you run the `sphinx generate` command. They exist in the `SphinxClient` contract, which must be inherited by your script.

We'll go into detail on each of these below.

## Required Configuration Options
In the `setUp()` function, you'll configure your project's settings by setting fields on a `sphinxConfig` struct. We'll go through its fields one by one.

### Project Name
```
sphinxConfig.projectName = "My Project";
```

The name of your project, which can be any name you choose. It's case-sensitive.

### Owners
```
sphinxConfig.owners = [0xf39Fd6e51aad88F6F4ce6aB8827279cffFb92266];
```

The list of addresses that own this project. Owners must approve deployments before they can be executed.

### Threshold
```
sphinxConfig.threshold = 1;
```

The number of owners required to approve a deployment.

### DevOps Platform Options
If you are using the Sphinx DevOps platform, there are several additional options you'll need to configure. You can learn more about them in the [Getting Started with the DevOps Platform](https://github.com/sphinx-labs/sphinx/blob/develop/docs/ops-getting-started.md) guide.

## The `run()` function

The entry point for Sphinx deployments must always be:

```sol
function run() public sphinx override {
    ...
}
```

You must include the `sphinx` modifier for the deployment to work properly.

## Deploying Contracts
To deploy a contract using Sphinx, you'll need to use slightly different syntax compared to a standard deployment. Instead of using the `new` keyword (e.g. `new MyContract(...)`), you'll need to call a deployment function.

For example, say you have a contract called `HelloSphinx` that you'd normally deploy via `new HelloSphinx("Hello!", 2)`. Using Sphinx, you'd deploy this contract by calling the function:

```
deployHelloSphinx("Hello!", 2);
```

Sphinx autogenerates a deployment function like this for each of your contracts. These autogenerated functions exist in your `SphinxClient` contract, which is inherited by your script. There is one deployment function per contract.

You can generate your client using:
```
npx sphinx generate
```

Typically, the deployment function for a contract will follow the format: `deploy<ContractName>`. If your repository contains more than one contract with the same name, Sphinx will resolve this ambiguity by using the full path to the contract with the format: `deploy<PathToContract>_<ContractName>`. For example, say your repository contains more than one contract with the name `ERC20`. If one of these contracts is located at `src/tokens/MyTokens.sol`, then its deployment function would be called: `deploySrcTokensMyTokens_ERC20`.

### Contract Deployment Options

Sometimes, it may be necessary to configure additional options when deploying contracts using Sphinx. For example, you may want to use a custom salt to determine your contract's CREATE3 address, or you may want to deploy multiple instances of the same contract. You can do this by entering a `DeployOptions` struct as the last argument of the appropriate deployment function. The structure of the `DeployOptions` struct is:

```sol
struct DeployOptions {
    string referenceName;
    bytes32 salt;
}
```

The fields of the `DeployOptions` struct are explained in detail below. Note that changing either of these fields will result in your contract having a different CREATE3 address.

#### Reference Name

A string label for the contract. The reference name is displayed in the deployment preview, website UI, etc. By default, the reference name is the name of the contract being deployed. It determines a contract's address along with the `salt`.

We recommend specifying the reference name when you want to deploy multiple instances of the same contract in the same deployment. For example, if you want to deploy two instances of `MyContract`, where one is called "MyFirstContract" and the other is called "MySecondContract", you can write:

```sol
deployMyContract(..., DeployOptions({ referenceName: "MyFirstContract", salt: bytes32(0) }));
deployMyContract(..., DeployOptions({ referenceName: "MySecondContract", salt: bytes32(0) }));
```

#### Salt

A `bytes32` salt value. Along with the reference name, the `salt` determines a contract's `CREATE3` address. The salt is `bytes32(0)` by default. We recommend changing the salt when you need to re-deploy a contract to a new address. Example usage:

```sol
deployMyContract(..., DeployOptions({ referenceName: "MyContract", salt: bytes32(123) }));
```
