# Project Registration Update
Sphinx is updating the way that you register projects. Instead of specifying your Gnosis Safe owners, threshold and salt nonce in your Solidity scripts, you will now register your projects via the Sphinx UI. In your script, you will simply specify the name of your project.

This change is intended to improve the UX of using Sphinx and to open the door for us to implement other feature requests such as sharing Gnosis Safes between Sphinx projects and importing Gnosis Safes that were deployed using alternative interfaces (such as the Gnosis Safe UI) into Sphinx.

## Update Guide
These steps will walk you through the process of getting upgraded to the new version. It should only take a few minutes for you to complete.

### 1. Update your Sphinx Plugin and Sphinx Solidity Library

Update the Sphinx plugin version by bumping the version in your `package.json` file to the latest version `0.32.0`.

Then update the Sphinx Solidity library by running `sphinx install`:
```
npx sphinx install
```

### 2. Fetch your `sphinx.lock` file and commit it to version control
Sphinx now stores information about your projects in a `sphinx.lock` file. This is an autogenerated file. You should not modify it manually. To generate this file for the first time run:
```
npx sphinx sync --org-id <ORG_ID>
```

Whenever you register a new project with Sphinx, you'll want to update your `sphinx.lock` file by running the following command:
```
npx sphinx sync
```

Commit the file to version control:
```
git add sphinx.lock
git commit -m "maint: Creating Sphinx lock file"
```

### 4. Remove legacy configuration options
Sphinx now only requires that you specify the `sphinxConfig.projectName` field in your script. You will need to remove the following configuration options from your deployment scripts:
- `sphinxConfig.orgId`
- `sphinxConfig.owners`
- `sphinxConfig.threshold`
- `sphinxConfig.saltNonce`

If you are using the `sphinxConfig.mainnets` or `sphinxConfig.testnets` options, you can leave both of them as they are.

### 5. Allow read access to the sphinx.lock file
Add the following option to the `fs_permissions` field in your foundry.toml file:
`{access="read", path="./sphinx.lock"}`

After you are done, it should look something like this:
```
fs_permissions=[{access="read", path="./out"}, {access="read-write", path="./cache"}, {access="read", path="./sphinx.lock"}]
```

### 6. Try proposing with your updated script
```
npx sphinx propose ./path/to/Script.s.sol --networks sepolia --dry-run
```

